The Rainbow Tourism Group is a major player in Zimbabwe&#8217;s tourism industry. Operating four distinct quality hospitality brands, the group has positioned itself as the leading provider of unique African hospitality.Exquisite architectural design and attention to detail in the interior design defines all their hotels in and around Zimbabwe, boasting of that &#8220;home away from home&#8221; feel. It is this level of standard that the Kadoma Hotel and Conference Centre has adopted in its phased refurbishment that is currently underway.The current location of the hotel makes it easily accessible from most parts of the country, making it conveniently placed to host people from major towns and regions. The hotel overview is comprised of 147 en-suite rooms made up of the following: 84 villas, 4 villa doubles, 8 suites (including 2 executive suites), 33 casitas and 18 lodges.The hotel has ensured that each room has the standard facilities of air conditioning, satellite TV for room entertainment, telephone and in-room tea and coffee facilities. There are also outdoor attractions that make the hotel more enjoyable.There is a 9 hole golf club and course near-by which can be booked by arrangement. The local sports club affiliation readily offers tennis, gym, soccer, squash, darts, pool (snooker) and bowls. For the nature lovers there is also bird watching mainly peacocks.The group invested over US$1 million in the phased product refurbishment that is currently underway and is expected to be completed in 2017. 40% of the bedrooms have already been completed including installation of modern air conditioning systems.To improve the comfort and homeliness of the rooms, they have added new contemporary furniture and linen, including a mini-bar. The investment has also included tiling in the bedrooms, bathrooms and painting of the exterior and interior.The hotel remains unique in the architectural design of the buildings, being single story blocks of casitas (spanish meaning &#8216;a small house&#8217;), lodges and villas, that are semi-detached.Each room has a mini patio and private garden which offers the residents more relaxation space in the comfort of their privacy. There are inter-leading rooms that make the hotel suitable for family accommodation. The room types include standard single, twin, double and executive suites.The hotel facilities, restaurants and banqueting facilities make it the ultimate conferencing and events destination. The Tigashire Restaurant offers an a la carte menu, while the Cafeteria offers light meals and take- away.The pool terrace is perfect for outdoor functions especially with the outdoor bar. The Executive Cocktail Bar was designed to cater for the mature crowd while the Ranch Bar caters well for those that enjoy the night life.The hotel has 11 conference rooms of varying sizes with the capacity to hold up to 200 delegates, 2 complimentary secretariat rooms for conferences of over 40 delegates and outside catering services available.&nbsp;