The government of Rwanda has pledged to set up 100 solar PV mini-grids in rural areas in Rwanda as part of the government’s efforts to mitigate effects of climate change. The commitment is under the umbrella of INDCs (Intended Nationally Determined Contributions) which is the climate action plan. The plan is a fundamental element in the implementation the Paris climate treaty signed by the Rwanda government and 160 other countries. Speaking during the signing ceremony of the Paris Agreement at the United Nations in New York on Friday, Louise Mushikiwabo the Foreign Affairs Minister, said Rwanda is one of the most vulnerable nations of climate change that need to establish a climate resilient economy. Renewable energy and getting rid of fossil fuel energy are considered as a fundamental factor in reducing emissions of ozone gases which cause global warming. Rwanda’s action plan include ‘sustainable small scale energy installation’ which mainly target rural communities settings that highly depend on kerosene for their lighting needs, wood fuel and agriculture residues for their cooking needs. Minister Mushikiwabo stressed that Rwanda’s Vision 2020 and Green Growth and Climate Resilience Strategy will steer the country towards becoming a developed, climate resilient and low carbon economy by 2050. However, she noted that “to reach the goals set by the agreement” the least developing countries needed support through increased levels of climate technology and finance transfer. The agreement will come to effect after 55 countries that account for at least 55% of global emissions have deposited their ratification instruments. Natural Resources Minister, Vincent Biruta said that the signing of the Paris Agreement “pushes our step to prepare ratification instruments allowing legal adoption and implementation.” He added that Rwanda created Green Fund which has up to date consolidated over $100 million in support of green investments and climate resilience initiatives all over the country. The Paris agreement also includes a commitment by developed countries to support climate vulnerable countries through technology and finance to a tune of $100 billion annually until 2025. 