James Musoni, Rwanda’s Minister for Infrastructure has conducted an assessment tour at the upcoming Kigali Heights in Rwanda a modern office and commercial complex that is under construction in Kimihurura. The minister praised the progress so far made in the construction of the project. The construction works started in early February 2014 and is expected to be completed in June this year. The minister said they hoped to finish the construction in time before the start of the African Union summit that will be held in Kigali in July this year. “We are impressed with the progress. We hope by the time the African Union summit starts, construction works will have been completed,” he said after touring the complex. Kigali Heights managing director Denis Karera said despite a number of challenges caused by among others the heavy rains that hampered the progress of the project, the project was on schedule and is expected to be completed within the set timeline. “We are in the final phases of construction. We have experienced heavy rains lately and this has affected works, but we are working hard and we expect to meet the deadline,” Karera said. The project is partly funded by Fusion Capital, a Kenyan based firm. According to the firm’s executive director, Daniel Kamau, the progress of the project is very impressive. Upon completion, the complex will have a retail space of 6,000 square meters, most of which has already been booked as well as 12,000 square meters worthy of office space. Century Real Estate Rwanda, the letting agency in charge of the structure said close to 80 per cent of the retail space available and 30 per cent for the office space has already been taken. Local and international brands have expressed interests in setting up businesses at the facility that is situated in a prime and high traffic area of Kigali. The complex has parking space for over 300 vehicles and is located across the proposed Kigali Convention centre that is under construction and scheduled to host the African Union summit