In an effort to streamline the transport sector in Rwanda the construction of the major roads in Rwandan town of Musanze are on top gear and nearing completion. The project construction which was divided into phases saw the construction of phase one include the construction of 15 km road and covers part of the stretch from Musanze town to the Rwanda Defence Force Command and Staff College at Nyakinama and other roads around town. Once complete the roads in Rwandan town of Musanze is estimated to have coast Rwf7 billion while the second phase will include the construction of 10km, will start thereafter, with both phases budgeted to cost Rwf12 billion. Though the officials added that the projects have taken longer time than expected as earlier on the project were estimated to be complete by May 2016. Eng. Alphonse Kamugisha, in charge of urban roads development at RTDA said the project is almost complete and they expect it to be done in a month’s time.
He said he has been physically assessing the project and he believes that the remaining construction of some Key streets near completion. According to Kamugisha, the Musanze works are part of a wider project to construct more urban roads in secondary cities and in some districts. According to Rwanda Transport and Development Agency (RTDA) upgrading the roads in Rwandan town of Musanze is expected to spur development in the area. The plan is to construct at least a 4km road network in each secondary city.
The government has received over $100 million from World Bank to facilitate infrastructure development such as roads, water and electricity, among others, he said. Apart from secondary cities, Kamugisha says RTDA is also constructing a 4.5 km of tarmac road in Gicumbi and plans are underway to construct another road in Karongi District. Rwanda is on a road construction spree aimed at boosting the country’d burgeoning economy. Last week African Development Bank (AfDB) and other financial bodies offered the country US$184m loan to boost road construction projects.