Cytonn Real Estate, a development affiliate of Kenyan investment firm Cytonn Investments, is focused on developing institutional grade real estate targeted at specific institutional, high net-worth and Diaspora investors. Cytonn Investments and Cytonn Real Estate collectively manage over Ksh.74 billion of real estate projects.These projects include The Alma, Situ Village, Amara Ridge, The Ridge and New Town.The AlmaThe Alma is a comprehensive residential development comprising of 408 modern apartments with impeccable finishing.The development is strategically positioned in the heart of the fast growing Ruaka neighbourhood and adjacent suburbs include, Runda, Rosslyn and Muthaiga which make the location quite secure and attractive for investors. The project consists of the following apartment components: 1 bedroom Units (51sqm); 2 bedroom Units (87sqm) and 3 bedroom Units (117sqm). Project features include Day care/ Nursery, a club house, a commercial hub, swimming pool, roof-top gardens, children s playground and solar water heating. Situ Village Situ village is nestled in the green leafy suburbs of Karen, a few minutes drive from The Hub, a major suburban shopping mall. The development is an exclusive world class gated community that sits on 29 acres of land bordering the expansive evergreen Ololua Forest.The property offers a total of fifty, 4 bedroom villas, each with a plinth area of 380 sqm, all en-suite, sitting on acre plots. The development will be in 3 phases: Phase I &#8211; 22 Villas and 10 cottages; Phase II &#8211; 18 Villas and Phase III &#8211; 10 Villas, 5 cottages, commercial centre and clubhouse.The development also boasts extra features including a retail centre, cottages, a clubhouse, a jogging track, hiking trail and a helipad.Amara Ridge Amara Ridge is an outstanding and exclusive private gated community in Karen that offers a distinctly luxurious real estate option featuring both Classic and Contemporary designs. The Classic Design offers timeless architecture, grand arrival, elegant arches and sumptuous space to cater for every family need while ensuring a signature lifestyle.The Contemporary design offers a modern feel with a sleek canopy at the entrance. It provides sumptuous space for a distinctive signature lifestyle with secondary gates and expansive well landscaped gardens.&nbsp;The project consists of luxurious five bedroom Villas of 495SqM with DSQ for two on a half an acre within a gated community of 10 Villas and a club house.Amenities include a top of the world club house with meeting place and children play area, a common swimming pool and option for individual pool and water fountain at one s home, abundance of water, power backup, waste recycling plant for irrigation, 24-hour security with CCTV and electric fencing as well as paved roads.&nbsp;The RidgeThe Ridge is a comprehensive luxurious lifestyle development located approximately 10 Km from Nairobi CBD, 300 m from the junction of Kiambu Rd and the Northern Bypass. The development sits on 9.8 acres of land and touches the Northern Bypass.It will consist of the following units:1 Bedroom, 2 Bedroom, 3 Bedroom and 3 Bedroom with DSQ. Other components include Penthouses located at the top of the blocks and will have exclusive terraces, Terraced units located at the bottom but also have exclusive terraces, Retail Section and Serviced Apartments.The development will have amenities such as a gym, infinity pools, gazebos and children s play areas. The development will also have six courtyards for recreation. The retail section shall consist of boutique shops and offices. New TownNewtown is an exceptional master planned development within the greater Nairobi Metropolis that once complete, will comprise residential, commercial, educational, logistics, recreational and hospitality facilities. Newtown sits on approximately 1000 acres located in Athi River, Machakos County, approximately 10 km off Mombasa Road along Mutongoni Road.New Town will be sold in phases starting off with the residential area which has been divided into 1/8th acre plots. The project will also be implemented in phases with the first phase catering for amenities such as Cabro paved roads, water provision, street lights and electricity.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;